[DNM until v7.5.1] resource_control: add more info about sql ru consumption (#16039) (#16456)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control.md

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

When you enable resource control, the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md) contains the resource group, RU consumption of the corresponding SQL, and the time spent waiting for available RUs.

</CustomContent>

#### View RU statistics by `statements_summary`

The system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.statements_summary`](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary) in TiDB stores the normalized and aggregated statistics of SQL statements. You can use the system table to view and analyze the execution performance of SQL statements. It also contains statistics about resource control, including the resource group name, RU consumption, and the time spent waiting for available RUs. For more details, see [`statements_summary` fields description](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary-fields-description).

### View the RU consumption of resource groups

> Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB provides the system table [`mysql.request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to store the historical records of the RU consumption of each resource group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v7.5.1, TiDB provides the system table [`mysql.request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to store the historical records of the RU consumption of each resource group.
```

> ### View the RU consumption of resource groups
> 
> Starting from v7.5.1, TiDB provides the system table [`mysql.request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to store the historical records of the RU consumption of each resource group.
> 
> Example:
> 
> ```sql
> SELECT * FROM request_unit_by_group LIMIT 5;
> ```
> 
> ```
> +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------------+----------+
> | start_time                 | end_time                   | resource_group | total_ru |
> +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------------+----------+
> | 2024-01-01 00:00:00.000000 | 2024-01-02 00:00:00.000000 | default        |   334147 |
> | 2024-01-01 00:00:00.000000 | 2024-01-02 00:00:00.000000 | rg1            |     4172 |
> | 2024-01-01 00:00:00.000000 | 2024-01-02 00:00:00.000000 | rg2            |    34028 |
> | 2024-01-02 00:00:00.000000 | 2024-01-03 00:00:00.000000 | default        |   334088 |
> | 2024-01-02 00:00:00.000000 | 2024-01-03 00:00:00.000000 | rg1            |     3850 |
> +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------------+----------+
> 5 rows in set (0.01 sec)
> ```
> 
> > **Note:**
> >
> > The data of `mysql.request_unit_by_group` is automatically imported by a TiDB scheduled task at the end of each day. If the RU consumption of a resource group is 0 on a certain day, no record is generated. By default, this table stores data for the last three months (up to 92 days). Data that exceeds this period is automatically cleared.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
